# Getting-and-Cleaning-Data-Course-Project
Peer-graded Assignment: Getting and Cleaning Data Course Project
11 July 2020
================================================================================

The raw data, located in the Data folder, was downloaded from

https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip

The data linked represent data collected from the accelerometers from the
Samsung Galaxy S smartphone.


After downloading the .zip file, the data were extracted into the
./Data/UCI HAR Dataset folder.

The following .txt files were read into R as data frames:
./Data/UCI HAR Dataset/features.txt -> features
    : List of all features.

./Data/UCI HAR Dataset/activity_labels.txt -> class_labels
    : Links the class labels with their activity name.

./Data/UCI HAR Dataset/train/X_train.txt -> training_set
    : Training set.

./Data/UCI HAR Dataset/train/y_train.txt -> training_labels
    : Training labels.

./Data/UCI HAR Dataset/train/subject_train.txt -> training_subjects
    : Each row identifies the subject who performed the activity for each
    window sample. Its range is from 1 to 30. 

./Data/UCI HAR Dataset/test/X_test.txt -> test_set
    : Test set.

./Data/UCI HAR Dataset/test/y_test.txt -> test_labels
    : Test labels.

./Data/UCI HAR Dataset/test/subject_test.txt -> test_subjects
    : Each row identifies the subject who performed the activity for each
    window sample. Its range is from 1 to 30.
    

The columns of training_labels, training_set, and training_subjects were
combined into the data frame training_data and test_labels, test_set, and
test_subjects were combined into the data frame test_data using bind_cols()
and left_join().

The 4th to 564th columns of each dataset was then gathered and then matched
with the features data frame using gather() and left_join().

The resulting data frames, training_final and test_final, were then appended
using bind_rows to generate the first tidy data set, all_data.

Variables of interest, relating to the mean and standard deviation measurements
were extracted using the filter() function to create interest_data.

Finally, tidy_data was generated by using group_by() on the subject, activity,
and variables, and then summarize() to generate the means.
